# `rdmolony.github.io`

This website uses ...

- `Jekyll` to transform `Markdown` files (in `_posts/` & `_pages/`) into files which a web browser can understand[^JEKYLL]

- `TailwindCSS` to style it[^TAILWINDCSS]

- `StorybookJS` to experiment with & test styling[^STORYBOOKJS]

---

## Installation

- [Clone this repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository)[^GITHUB]

- Install [`nix`](https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/nix-installer)

- (Optional) Install [`direnv`](https://direnv.net/) - to automatically activate this environment on `cd`'ing to this directory

- Or run ...

    ```sh
    nix develop
    ```
    ... to manually activate this `nix` environment

- Install all `Jekyll` dependencies ...

    ```sh
    bundle install
    ```

> [!NOTE]
>  `bundle` installs all `Jekyll` `Ruby` dependencies via `Gemfile` & `Gemfile.lock` 

---

## How to ...

### Launch a `Jekyll` server?

```sh
run-jekyll
```

... to watch changes to `_posts`, `_pages`, `_layouts` etc & automatically rebuild the site

### Launch a `TailwindCSS` server?

```sh
run-tailwind
```

... to watch style changes to `tailwind.css` & propagate them to `Jekyll` via `assets/`


### Style code blocks?

`Jekyll` (>3.0) has builtin support for `Rouge` so the `HTML` generated by `Jekyll` for things like ...

```markdown
    ```python
    def hi():
        print("hi)
    ```
```

... will automatically include classes that `Rouge` can hook into for styling.

`Rouge` needs me to define `CSS` for these classes which I can generate `assets/css/syntax.css` via ...

```sh
bundle exec rougify style github.dark > assets/css/syntax.css
```

---

<details>
<summary>Footnotes</summary>

[^JEKYLL]:

    Each `Markdown` file in `_pages/` and `_posts/` contains both:
    
    - `Markdown` language specifying content. It allows me use special symbols (like `# Header`) instead of `HTML` (`<h1>Header</h1>`). This makes the content way more human readable in textual form.
    - `Liquid` language specifying everything else. It allows me to specify page metadata (like dates), or perform special operations like linking one page to multiple other pages.

    `Jekyll` understands both, and uses this understanding to transform transform these `Markdown` files into `HTML/CSS/Javascript`. Web browsers understand `HTML/CSS/Javascript`, humans, however, don't tend to find them particularly legible!

[^GITHUB]:

    I use [`git clone`](https://git-scm.com/) ...

    ```sh
    git clone git@github.com:rdmolony/rdmolony.github.io.git
    ```

    ... since I prefer to [authenticate with `GitHub` via `SSH`](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh)

[^TAILWINDCSS]:

    `TailwindCSS` is being used in an atypical manner here. Typically, one would use it alongside a frontend framework to let one specify style in components directly in component `class` attributes, and the file watcher then propagates these attributes from `JS/JSX/TS/TSX` files (etc) to a `CSS` file. 
    
    I'm using it here as one would normally use plain old `CSS`, by overriding top-level classes in a `CSS` file, since I find it to be a bit more concise as a language.
 
[STORYBOOKJS]:

    `StorybookJS` is a `Javascript` framework which enables [Component Driven Development](https://www.componentdriven.org/). I use it here to experiment with styling individual `HTML` elements (like buttons), and composing them into components. I also use it for catching UI regressions. 
